Please answer the following questions with all relevant assumptions, explanations and details. 
Planned to purchase product A ! Actually placed order for productA- yes ! Actually placed order for productA no! Total
Yes                           ! 400                                     !    100                               !  500
No                            ! 200                                     !    1300                              !  1500
TOTAL                         ! 600                                     !    1400                              !  2000
1. Please refer the table below to answer below questions: [2 Marks]
1.A. Refer above table and find the joint probability of the people who planned to purchase and actually placed an order. [1 Mark]
1.B. Refer to the above table and find the joint probability of the people who planned to purchase and actually placed an order, given that 
people planned to purchase. [1 Mark]
2. An electrical manufacturing company conducts quality checks at specified periods on the products it manufactures. Historically, the 
failure rate for the manufactured item is 5%. Suppose a random sample of 10 manufactured items is selected. Answer the following 
questions. [4 Marks]
2.A. Probability that none of the items are defective? [1 Mark]
2.B. Probability that exactly one of the items is defective? [1 Mark]
2.C. Probability that two or fewer of the items are defective? [1 Mark]
2.D. Probability that three or more of the items are defective ? [1 Mark]
3. A car salesman sells on an average 3 cars per week. [3 Marks]
3.A. What is Probability that in a given week he will sell some cars? [1 Mark]
3.B. What is Probability that in a given week he will sell 2 or more but less than 5 cars? [1 Mark]
3.C. Plot the poisson distribution function for cumulative probability of cars sold per-week vs number of cars sold per week. [1 Mark]
4. Accuracy in understanding orders for a speech based bot at a restaurant is important for the Company X which has designed, 
marketed and launched the product for a contactless delivery due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Recognition accuracy that measures the 
percentage of orders that are taken correctly is 86.8%. Suppose that you place an order with the bot and two friends of yours 
independently place orders with the same bot. Answer the following questions. [3 Marks] 
4.A. What is the probability that all three orders will be recognised correctly? [1 Mark]
4.B. What is the probability that none of the three orders will be recognised correctly? [1 Mark]
4.C. What is the probability that at least two of the three orders will be recognised correctly? [1 Mark]
5. Explain 1 real life industry scenario (other than the ones mentioned above) where you can use the concepts learnt in this module of 
Applied Statistics to get data driven business solution. [3 Marks]
DOMAIN: Sports
• CONTEXT: Company X manages the men's top professional basketball division of the American league system. The dataset contains information 
on all the teams that have participated in all the past tournaments. It has data about how many baskets each team scored, conceded, how many 
times they came within the first 2 positions, how many tournaments they have qualified, their best position in the past, etc.
• DATA DESCRIPTION: Basketball.csv - The data set contains information on all the teams so far participated in all the past tournaments.
• DATA DICTIONARY:
1. Team: Team’s name
2. Tournament: Number of played tournaments.
3. Score: Team’s score so far.
4. PlayedGames: Games played by the team so far.
5. WonGames: Games won by the team so far.
6. DrawnGames: Games drawn by the team so far.
7. LostGames: Games lost by the team so far.
8. BasketScored: Basket scored by the team so far.
9. BasketGiven: Basket scored against the team so far.
10. TournamentChampion: How many times the team was a champion of the tournaments so far.
11. Runner-up: How many times the team was a runners-up of the tournaments so far.
12. TeamLaunch: Year the team was launched on professional basketball.
13. HighestPositionHeld: Highest position held by the team amongst all the tournaments played.
• PROJECT OBJECTIVE: Company’s management wants to invest on proposals on managing some of the best teams in the league. The analytics 
department has been assigned with a task of creating a report on the performance shown by the teams. Some of the older teams are already in 
contract with competitors. Hence Company X wants to understand which teams they can approach which will be a deal win for them.
• STEPS AND TASK [30 Marks]:
1. Read the data set, clean the data and prepare final dataset to be used for analysis. [10 Marks]
2. Perform detailed statistical analysis and EDA using univariate, bi-variate and multivariate EDA techniques to get data driven insights on 
recommending which teams they can approach which will be a deal win for them. Also as a data and statistics expert you have to develop a 
detailed performance report using this data. [10 Marks]
Hint: Use statistical techniques and visualisation techniques to come up with useful metrics and reporting. Find out the best performing 
team, oldest team, team with highest goals, team with lowest performance etc. and many more. These are just random examples. Please 
use your best analytical approach to build this report. You can mix match columns to create new ones which can be used for better 
analysis. Create your own features if required. Be highly experimental and analytical here to find hidden patterns. Use graphical interactive 
libraries to enable you to publish interactive plots in python.
3. Please include any improvements or suggestions to the association management on quality, quantity, variety, velocity, veracity etc. on the 
data points collected by the association to perform a better data analysis in future. At-least 1 suggestion for each point. [10 Marks]
